# 7-Days-Great-Wall-Hiking

## Trip Overview
This is an abbreviated version of our more-comprehensive 12-day hike. It is carefully designed for the Great Wall enthusiast who would like to experience the best parts of the eastern Wall, but has only limited time. We start on the ocean, at Dragon’s Head, and hike eastward to Dongjiakou, where descendants of the original builders still proudly maintain “their” section of the wall. From here, we hike to the massive fortress at Huangyaguan, which includes part of the Wall which is constructed over a body of water. One of our last stops is Simatai, the best example of the Ming Dynasty wall, which is listed by UNESCO as a World Heritage site. A really unique experience!

## Day-by-Day Itinerary
(B=breakfast, L=lunch, D=dinner)

## Day 1 Beijing > Old Dragon's Head > Shanhaiguan Great Wall (BLD)
After an early breakfast we will have a four-hour drive on good roads from Beijing to Old Dragon’s Head, over 400km away. After lunch, we will visit the Old Dragon's Head fortifications, where the Wall meets the sea, and which is considered the easternmost point of the Great Wall. After our visit, we will hike from Old Dragon's Head directly to Shanhaiguan Pass (also known as the First Pass Under Heaven). This pleasant hike of 1 - 1.5 hours will take us through some small villages until we see the Gate Towers of the Shanhaiguan Pass Fortress, far away. A short drive will take us to the Fortress itself. After a one-hour's visit of the Fortress and the Great Wall Museum inside, we will be transferred to the First Pass Hotel (a simple but clean courtyard hotel with private washroom and hot showers) for our first overnight stay near the Wall.

## Day 2 Jiaoshan > Sandaoguan Great Wall (BLD; 12 km, 6-7 hrs)
Refreshed after a good sleep, a short drive will take us to Jiaoshan Mountain. We will hike from the bottom of Jiaoshan Mountain upwards, directly to the Wall, where, on a clear day, we will be able to enjoy a beautiful bird’s-eye view of Shanhaiguan city in the early morning sunlight, far below. We will then strike off for the next 3-4 hours, travelling in a north-easterly direction, hiking partly on the wall and partly on a wild mountain trail, until we come to our destination - a beautiful valley overlooked by Mt. Longevity. This peaceful valley is characterized by huge stones, a quiet forest, and crystal-clear creeks. In the shadow of Mt. Longevity sits the little village of Sandaoguan (“Three-layer-wall Pass”) with about 35 families living in it. We will walk down to the village, where we will enjoy a short rest and meet our vehicle. Then we will drive about one-and-a-half hours to a village named Dongjiakou, where we will have the unique experience of staying in a local family’s guest-house, very simple but clean (furnished with “kang” beds, common in northern China).

## Day 3 Dongjiakou > Great Wall village (BLD; 6 km, 2-3 hrs)
This is a special day! In the morning, we will take a short hike up the mountain from Dongjiakou village to see the Cihou Tower, a special structure that is only seen at this portion of the Great Wall. Although this Dongjiakou section is relatively short, with a length of only 8.9 km, it has remained one of the best-preserved sections of the original Ming Dynasty Wall, built more than 600 years ago. Then we will return to the Donjiakou village to visit the ruins of the fortress and to chat with the villagers, who are the descendants of the builders and guards of the Great Wall, and who have proudly maintained this section of the Wall themselves, generation after generation, without government funding. At the end of our hike, we will start our long 4-hour drive to the site of the East Qing Tombs, where we will stay in a nice hotel nearby (two beds per room, with private washroom).

## Day 4 East Qing Tomb > Huangyaguan Great Wall (BLD; 1.5hrs) 
This morning, we will visit the East Qing tombs, which far-surpass their more famous predecessors, the Ming Tombs, both in splendor and in majesty. These tombs form a countryside version of the Forbidden City and are nearly as elaborate. Tastefully restored for the most part, this Imperial City is vast, grand, and less crowded. After lunch, a half-an-hour-drive will bring us to a small village near Huangyaguan Pass. From here, we will hike for about one hour-and-a-half, westward, to Huangyaguan. Overnight at the courtyard hotel in Huangyaguan (two beds per room, with private washroom).

## Day 5 Huangyaguan > a small mountain village (BLD; 8 km, 4-5 hours hiking)
Huangyaguan is situated in a beautiful valley in the heart of the Yanshan Mountains. As we start our walk heading up the steep renovated steps, we will come to what appears to be a sheer cliff face. This is where we encounter "Heaven’s Ladder", a steep climb of over 200 steps leading up the precipice to the top! Once at the top, when we have caught our breath, the path continues gradually up onto the ridge, where we will once again meet the old Wall which follows the highest contours of the mountain. After this climb, you will surely appreciate the difficulties the builders must have had constructing this massive defense! As we continue our hike during the afternoon, we will find ourselves following the Wall as it gradually descends to the valley below, where our vehicle will be waiting. We will then drive to Jinshanling, where we will overnight in the hostel at the bottom of Jinshanling itself (two persons per room, with private washroom).

## Day 6 Jinshanling Great wall and Wohushan Great Wall (BLD; 8 km; 5 hrs)
After breakfast, we will continue to hike eastward from Jinshanling toward the Simatai section of the Wall. Our hiking on Jinshanling stops at Wuyan tower where we could enjoy a good view of Simatai Great Wall and overlook the surrounding. Then we will down to meet our driver in the parking lot at the bottom of Jinshanling. Lunch in a local restaurant. 
Then we will take a short drive to Wohushan section of the Great Wall for another 2 hours hiking. Wohushan (Crouching Tiger Mountain) Great Wall straddles on the rocky mountains of Wohushan— so named because two distinct peaks resemble a pair of tigers, one looks up and the other bends down. The Wall winds through Wohushan for 13.6 kilometer; along the way, 20 towers decked its spine. Our hike will cover part of them. This is the Wall which is not seen by tourists!

## Day 7 Jinshanling-Gubeikou Section Great Wall (BL; 10 km, 5 hrs)
On our last day, we will make our last trek westward from Jinshanling to the General Tower in Gubeikou, although we will have to trek a short distance away from the Wall, along a country road, to bypass a restricted military area. But today's trekking will be fairly easy, because the Jinshanling section of the Great Wall is still kept well. With our drive back to Beijing, we will come to the end of our 7-day hike along the Great Wall, an experience to remember for a lifetime!

## Contact email: assistant@cnadventure.com 


